I'm Andrea with this well-seasoned
life.com where I help people who are
ready to be done with dieting with
recognizing and challenging diet culture
you're watching 100 days of SEO by smart
smart friends I am Brendan Hufford I am
here in this 100 days of SEO to help you
make a radical change in your life with
SEO just like I've done in my little bit
of background in case you're new here I
am the founder of SEO for the rest of us
and 100 days of SEO I am also the SEO
director at a phenomenal agency here in
Chicago called The Clique Studios I'm a
former teacher and I'm gonna cram in as
many dad jokes as I can because I'm
pretty basic real quick I just want to
thank eight reps you're gonna see me
show eight reps as a tool that I use in
my business every single day they're
also a sponsor for this workshop
Wednesday episode of 100 days of SEO so
thanks to eight reps you're also going
to get a good look at how I use hrs for
keyword and competitive research or a
mostly brand new website but before I
tell you what that website is today I
want to invite you to join the 100 days
of SEO community and 100 days of seo.com
slash join you get access to all the
behind the scenes resources including my
pillared content masterclass where I lay
out step-by-step how to create the kind
of content that ranks in Google in 2019
so make sure you check that out
100 days of seo.com slash join now on to
the show today we are talking about this
well-seasoned
like a fantastic website and when I said
earlier it was a mostly brand-new
website I mean that inter from an SEO
standpoint this is a fairly new website
that we are looking at the homepage here
and really just in a spot that most of
us have been at different points when it
comes to SEO with the homepage that is
just a blogroll with the sidebar and
some header navigation and we're really
gonna break down what this website can
do to improve when we're talking about
ranking factors just as a quick review
the way I think about SEO I think about
the website first the website is the
foundation of the building then you have
your content those are the screws and
the the structure and the two-by-fours
and then you have your authority and
that's everything else that makes a home
liveable and make sure you've been able
to sell it someday so what I want to do
is we're actually gonna hop out of the
slides here and I want to take a look at
things so this is this well-seasoned
life.com first thing that I notice here
is that this website is it says my
journey to a healthier and more
flavorful existence but it's a picture
of trees I don't know I just don't know
if this website is for me if I land on
the homepage I have no clue about blog
podcast social media stuff I like
contact me it's so generic right now it
doesn't speak to anybody I have no idea
even if I found my way here based on a
recommendation from a friend they're
like oh go check out this wall season
live.com it's got everything you need to
you want to know about the thing you're
looking for and I come here and I'm like
what is this about travel and I'm not
saying this to be critical and I'm
certainly not saying it to be snarky I
want to be very very clear when you're
starting a new website this is where we
all start what would be really helpful
here it would be to have a really
focused homepage as I scroll down here I
see all right hey cool there's a logo
they have a logo that's awesome I see an
interview with Jen Stevens I still don't
know what this website is about
I see join the email list which is great
I think that's funny to keep me well
seasoned facing the truth not sure what
it's about you know as I'm going down
here I'm starting to see some tags I'm
starting to see some things that maybe
might be helpful to me if I'm interested
in these topics but let's go back up so
there's so much here first of all it's
interesting with this theme as these
dropdowns are also clickable so stuff I
like is clickable
then this is also clickable and then so
are these and this is a really confusing
navigation structure it's not just
confusing now at the beginning phase of
the website but as Google's you know as
your website gets bigger and Google has
to crawl it again and again we want to
make it really easy for Google to crawl
your website so if I go to the about
page I can start to see a really
accurate picture of what this website is
about awesome now I see that there's a
person so my journey to a healthier more
flavorful existence now I see a person I
see this is the first time I'm seeing
who this is this website is about the
problem is I radically I I'm updating
I've spent my reflections who who is
this I still I still don't know and
that's a big bummer for me I think that
users are people and website creators
are people in the sooner you can connect
with who you are and who your audience
is the better so I think that's my
number one tip right now and I mean this
also from an SEO standpoint is to really
make sure that this website is about you
so I know that this website is about
Andrea it's really important that other
people do as well and it really doesn't
say in here any details about that the
other things I want to talk about here
these these headers could be used really
advantageous Lee and I'll explain more
will kind of actually come full circle
back to this but I want to just comment
really quickly this lets get so like
social media you have somebody on your
website that should be the ultimate goal
would be to get into the website and
either get them to opt-in or convert to
like this is the final point of
conversion you have worked so hard to
get them to the website do not drive
them back to Facebook they will never
come back face those see all their
notifications and they'll start going
through their feed I know you want to
send them to a Facebook group but they
I'm just letting you know they will not
come back this should be under podcast
there's no reason for this to live under
social media and podcast email lists if
you want people to sign up for your
email list this should be the page right
and other social media accounts like we
really shouldn't be driving people off
the website they should be finding these
through hashtags through the sort search
on those pages so you can see here right
like inter really you know
Instagram but just figure out where you
want to play here if you want to play an
SEO then don't push people to your
Instagram but you do get a lot of views
on on Pinterest which is fantastic we
definitely do want to like consider like
this is a really good way to drive
people back to your website and what
that would look like just simply like
I'm not a Pintrest expert I don't play
one on the internet but this looks like
getting people to you to check out your
boards over and over and thence putting
your own stuff on your boards pinning
your own thing so while they're there to
look for the the general topic they're
also finding you the other thing that I
think is really crucial to mention here
on the website is just removing all of
these Google Ads
there's no reason for me to click away
to DocuSign when I'm here and the stuff
in the text this is good because this is
the problem is this is not obvious that
this is an affiliate link and this is
like something you support I would push
people to a page about dinner daily say
like hey check out my dinner daily
review and then get them over there
don't just cram these in the middle of a
post because it's really out of context
the same with this like rental of
exquisite Linens
more like just retargeting ads and
things like that it comes out really
wonky and like these are some of your
better art like more popular articles
but here I'm going to Moz con like you
know you don't want to send people away
to this stuff and you don't get to
decide what they see here and that's a
huge liability all of a sudden like if
they are getting retargeted by some
weird stuff luckily for me it's SEO
retargeting and BBJ linen which is a
client from click studios I've been on
their website a million times I'm we
also handle their paid advertising so
I'm literally looking at my own work
it's just funny but like what if it's
something weird what if it's some weird
you don't want that showing up in the
middle of your page here that's so
awkward clickfunnels thanks clickfunnels
of course you would be here too but my
point is Andrea this is not what you
want to show so I would get rid of all
of these ads right away there's no way
you make enough money from these ads to
make it worth this horrible user
experience and a better user experience
means better rankings in search and then
finally like now we're starting to
getting some really good stuff here you
know this Wildtree well and this product
launch the shakes and things like that
this is look at like this
is better we've got a video this is
still out of place but we've talked
about that but here we have like good
helpful images and things I think this
is all really valuable and I hope that
this has been really helpful so far just
thinking through what should be on the
website now I want to kind of dive into
just like a quick overview so I'm using
8 refs here and what I meant by a brand
new website was like there's only 8
linking domains here only ranking for
137 or so keywords nothing really
valuable which is fine which is totally
fine some traffic kind of up and down
coming in here from search when I filter
out these are only page 1 keywords we've
ranked in the top 3 for things a couple
times it's just not a lot we're still
pretty new in terms of SEO and that's
great SEO for a brand new website you
just have so much opportunity in front
of you
in terms of that I want to look at your
top pages so before I looked at top
pages I want to look at overall organic
keywords so I clicked over here on the
left here in href and looking at the
organic keywords I can see you mentioned
this to me when you shared your website
with me that you're ranking for a lot of
this bright-line eating stuff and
Wildtree stuff but you want to start
getting more content out there and
that's great but I think this is the key
and I'm gonna bring this back time and
time again throughout this workshop
Wednesday you really want to own your
stuff so build a castle build a moat
around it and then go conquer new
territory right but the problem is too
many people in a very like medieval
sense they build half a castle they
don't defend their castle and then
they're on to the next and the problem
is SEO is competitive there's other
people writing about bright line eating
and Wildtree stuff and if you're not
defending your castle and setting up a
defense for it and building it really
strongly before you I'll give you a
tactic exactly how to do this if you
watch till the end of the video I'll
explain exactly how to build these out
you know build that castle in that moat
and then move on to the next but you
shouldn't be trying to move on to other
things especially treating this website
is like a personal blog until you've
actually created this content that's
gonna bring people in organically so
again we see the bright line stuff the
wild tree stuff and that's that's pretty
much your most popular content in the
top pages here it's one of the coolest
functions of 8 refs I love this top
pages thing these are ranking and search
and doing really well but not because
you have links to them and that's great
means the content is strong the next
step for me would be to build links to
these you can see this is again a really
good start you're even writing for
things that people Google which is
fantastic what is wild tree wild tree
shakes like this is perfect
bright line eating recipe you've done
keyword research just by knowing what
people like yourself want to know and
then writing that out the one thing that
you mentioned me was you weren't sure
who your competition was so what I'm
using here in HR F's is a little section
here called competing domains what's
really cool is it shows the keyword
overlap so what I was looking at here
with these top ones were that we had a
lot of overlap in terms of keywords you
don't have a ton of keywords so for a
new website sometimes competing domains
is genuinely unhelpful because we can't
show overlap when there's nothing on our
end but I was able to actually get some
really good feedback from this so the
first one that I pulled up here is
Amanda's great idea now it's cool to
look at somebody else's website and kind
of scroll through it and see all of
these different things no no why did you
put this too early I'm not ready to
opt-in yet I just got here chill I take
that back Amanda might have set that
because I hit the bottom of the page
which is usually a good time to do a
pop-up but too soon here's why I pulled
up Amanda's great ideas because I wanted
to see what a man was doing well so we
can see 34 referring domains so a little
bit farther along so if Andrea's website
if this wall season life is step one
then this is step two what I wanted to
see here is again I wanted to use the
top pages function to see what content
was really hitting here now again oh
this is great to see no referring
domains on this content that means you
can probably rank for things without
having to get a bunch of backlinks to it
so you can see the bright line eating
review is here bright line eating one
year later that's a good thing like a
good thing that people want to see again
I'm gonna circle back to this people
want to see results from things and some
of these other ones aren't super helpful
for what we're talking about another
website that I found was Susan Pierce
Thomson and wouldn't you know that
digging around a little bit you would
find out that Susan Pearson is the one
that created bright line eating so it
might be hard to outrank Susan but again
we're gonna get content ideas so I click
here over to
pages despite having a huge brain around
bright-line eating and tons of videos
and Susan's really got this huge thing
going around bright line eating if you
look at this we don't get a lot of
content ideas from this like books for
food addicts like maybe that's helpful
but random living and clip like random
Forrest Gump like these are not helpful
things that we can actually model
content after the last one I wanted to
pull up here is Mike Rosa I guess I love
this this is exactly what I was talking
about granted this is a horribly
designed website please don't copy this
this at the beginning like I immediately
know whether this website is for me or
not I help busy moms and dads with
simple and easy ways to lose weight gain
energy build lean muscle get it it
sounds super generic but this is what's
missing on your website is who you help
in what you help them with so there
might be some ideas here so let's dig a
little further as we look into Mike's
website again kind of on the step two
here 25 referring domains not a lot of
data right now as we click over the top
pages we can see a good thing that we
can look at here and model is these vs.
articles right this thing versus this
thing this thing versus this thing I
would love to see a bright line eating
vs. wild tree kind of article I think
that would be incredibly valuable or any
other things that you've tried in the
past this versus this would be really
really helpful and really valuable and
let me explain why because as we dive
back into the slides here I want to
share with you how I think you can win
with this website
I'm sure you'll hear it have a lot of
people telling you hey this is a really
crowded space and it's hard to play in
but I think this is a smart strategy and
you can win with this the first is just
using the I am SEO framework right
figuring out somebody's intent when
they're googling something if I'm
googling Wildtree recipes what is my
intent what do I want
and why do I want it then how are we
going to give that to them we're
certainly not going to give them recipes
with every other paragraph with an
advertisement stuck in the middle of it
those are terrible all those recipe
websites are awful we all hate going to
them please don't make that right we
already know the medium we know where
it's gonna live and then if we have to
make it more relevant you know hint
we're gonna do that with a links here in
the bottom left so it gives us an idea
if we're still ranking at the bottom of
page one or on page two we know we
links to that content in a really sort
way that we're gonna figure this out is
with topical research not looking at
specific keywords but at overall topics
and making sure we solve for that intent
that intent in the I am SEO framework so
in looking at this I pulled up some
stuff I wanted to do a little bit of
keyword research around Wildtree and I
wanted to pull up this thing in HR EPS
called having the same terms so these
are a whole bunch of ideas around it not
just hey here's one keyword to rightfull
so we can see here we see wild tree
recipes wild tree meals wild tree
products and now we get a little deeper
wild tree reviews that's something you
could definitely rank for it look at
this keyword difficulty oh my gosh
and all this volume and traffic here's
the thing Andrea you really need to own
wild tree like build your castle and
wild tree build a moat around it and
then you can go to other stuff I'll give
you a couple ideas on how to do this
here in a moment also do this for
bright-line eating bright-line eating
reviews right line eating recipes do the
14 day challenge and talk about it put
together a bright-line eating FAQ put
together a bright-line eating food list
and the way you structure these together
really matters I mentioned before this
the whole idea of showing results is
really important I remember when I
started doing intermittent fasting I was
looking at hey can I write an article
about this I'm like ah crap I'm never
gonna rank for intermittent fasting it's
incredibly difficult 78 out of 100
keyword difficulty I'm not gonna outrank
James clear for intermittent fasting but
I could show my results and I could rank
first for intermittent fasting results
why that's a different intent that's a
totally different search intent around I
want to see the results versus I'm
trying to learn about what it is and the
the structure the way I think you would
win here and the way I think you can
really build your castle is that most
blogs are like this where you have your
main site then you have the blog and
there's a couple topics that we write
about you know we write about wild tree
and a bunch of other things and then
it's all just scattered in here we got
some podcast episodes and some personal
blogs and you know all these different
things but what if we actually took our
main site and we started putting things
together we started categorizing
everything into these content clusters
now a content cluster or a topic cluster
as HubSpot would call it starts with
your pillar content in the middle like
the ultimate guide to Wildtree or
something like that
and then on the outside we're gonna put
all of this cluster content smaller
things and this is how we're gonna
structure this so if we jump back a
little bit bright-line eating the
ultimate guide to bright line eating
that's our pillar content and then we
have cluster content right you know
reviews of bright line eating another
cluster content is the recipes another
plus or content could be the FAQ or you
could even include the FAQ in the pillar
content things like that the food list
could be another option the same thing
if we jump back to wild tree like the
ultimate guide to wild tree would be
really really helpful like everything
you ever wanted to know our about wild
tree and then you could have clustered
content about like hey what's it like to
go to a workshop here's some freezer
meal recipes here's some like positive
and negative reviews people want people
are googling like where the negative
reviews because I think so many of the
people writing about wild tree are like
you ambassadors for the product so it
seems really positive people are like
looking at like who is this not for and
if you're the one voice you're like look
like wild tree might not be for you if
and you give them that on its truth and
they're like oh thank you I trust you as
a more neutral source of information
you're like but it's also is for you if
then they'll be able to self-select out
but also self select in and then they'll
be in your ecosystem they've also built
immense trust with you so I think kind
of jumping through here this topic
cluster is a great way and I would
really advise before you move on to more
content and before you move on to other
things
think about interlinking think about
creating that ultimate guide in creating
that cluster content also the last thing
here is just really understanding what
phase of the journey they're at in terms
of their depth into your content or into
the topic rather so are they problem
aware they solution where are they
product aware most aware and here's how
that looks actually specifically for you
so if their problem aware they they know
they have some pains right like I want
to lose weight without starving myself
but those are people who that have
problems and they know they have
problems they don't even know that those
solutions exist but once they do now
they're googling what is Wildtree you
know we can get them in there then their
product where I know Wildtree exist but
then this is where we start writing
about Wildtree reviews like is it right
for you like let's put some of those
negative reviews in there let's put some
of those reasons why it might be a bad
idea if and then most aware is we get
them in that like personal kind of
review
page of like hey I'm an ambassador for
this product I'd love to work with you
blah blah blah or whatever I hope that
this is extremely helpful I think that
simply by the the strategy of look we
have a brand new website we need to
really build out our content in our
topic clusters and then we can write
about other things in Android after
you've written about those topic
clusters I would really advise you to
start looking at link building from
other websites you need to build your
authority or else you'll spin your
wheels for years writing all of this
content and people will rarely ever see
it compared to if you actually had links
pointing at that content if this
workshop once it was helpful for you
please go to 100 days of seo.com slash
join link is in the description if you
are watching on youtube please give this
a thumbs up if it was a helpful resource
for you leave me a comment below if you
are just starting your website what are
you struggling with when it comes to SEO
I'd love to make a video for you I would
love to answer you in the comments so
again that's 100 days of seo.com slash
showing get all of our bonus resources
if you're wondering how to create that
pillar content that I talked about in
this video we literally have a pillar
content masterclass for free in the
community check that out
I've been Brennan huffard don't forget
to work hard be nice to people and don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters
[Music]